talks between negotiators trying to
reach a Gaza ceasefire have ended in
Cairo without a deal the Hamas official
said his delegation was leaving for Doha
for further consultations Palestinians
in Gaza have been pinning their hopes on
the outcome of the talks hoping a
temporary truce would allow them to
return to their homes but in Israel
hopes are fading that a deal acceptable
to both sides can be reached at
all these Israeli protesters are
demanding their government push on with
its plan for a military operation in
Rafa in southern Gaza many of them are
relatives of soldiers killed in the war
they believe a RFA incursion is the best
way to pressure Hamas to release the
Israeli hostages it still
holds visiting troops in the central
Gaza Strip Israeli defense minister yav
Galant indicated that he agrees with the
protesters
there are concerning signals that Hamas
is not planning to accept any deal or
agreement with
us this means an operation in Rafa and
in the entire gasa strip in the very
near
future galant's sentiments were echoed
in a video message from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu capitulating to hamas's
demands would be a terrible defeat for
Israel
it would be a great victory for Hamas
Iran and the excess of evil it would
show great weakness to our friends and
enemies bring the next War closer and
push the next peace agreement further
away for many displaced Palestinians in
Gaza the resumption of ceasefire talks
ignited their longing to return
home there's a great sense of hope and
anticipation as we have longed for
months for the negotiations to
succeed so we and all the place people
can go back home we yearn for stability
and bringing an end to the war and
destruction we have
witnessed many hope a ceasefire would
end the bombing and allowing in food
medicine and other supplies that can
save
lives Ned al-masri a grandfather has
found a cooked meal for his family of
16 the food distributed by the charity
World Central Kitchen is helping them
survive sometimes we have lunch but we
don't have dinner and sometimes we have
breakfast but we don't have lunch we
must manage whatever food we get from
outside is enough we share it among
ourselves and say thank
God but used to be trucks but now there
are no trucks we haven't had vegetables
for a month and a
half with the UN saying parts of Gaza
are experiencing famine the need for a
truce is even a temporary one is all the
more
urgent for more let's bring in German
Egyptian journalist Karim El goari in
Cairo kareim good to see you again the
talks have ended Hamas has now left
Cairo tell us what does this mean in
terms of now reaching any kind of
ceasefire
deal well the this negotiations were
going on since Saturday for two days and
it was negotiations with a Hamas
delegation Egyptian mediators and C
mediators and the head of the CIA
William Burns um not much came out to
the public about really what was
negotiated exactly in the last two days
but now the Hamas delegation is leaving
Cairo and CIA head William Burns is on
his way toq trying to save what is there
to be safe it is difficult to bring a
final judgment if this is a failure the
negotiations or if they will continue
Hamas is already saying that their plan
is to come back on Tuesday to Cairo
after they consulted with their
leadership to continue the negotiations
we don't know anything about the Israeli
side their delegations was not present
here in Egypt because they were waiting
what uh result this negotiations will
bring we have no idea if the Israeli
delegations might then come on Tuesday
when Hamas is coming back so it's all a
about out in the open but the um this
most the biggest sticking point of
course is is the following is Hamas is
asking for guarantees for a permanent
ceasefire um either from the US from the
other mediators but at the end of course
they have to get this guarantee from
Israel itself and they were asking for
withdrawal of the Israeli forces from
the Gaza Strip and that is something
that is not accepted for netan he says
he wants to push on with the Israeli
offensive in Rafa and that is the gap
that is so difficult to Bridge and we
don't know if the nego negations failed
or if they just deferred to next week
thanks for that kareim that was German
Egyptian journalist Karim El goari in
Cairo thank
you you're welcome well Israel has
closed the km Shalom Border Crossing
into Gaza after Hamas launched an attack
on it Israeli media say several people
people have been injured now Israel's
military released this footage that it
claims shows Hamas Fighters firing at
the Crossing the militant group has
claimed responsibility for the attack
saying it was targeting Israeli soldiers
in the area the Kem Shalom Crossing is
the main entry point for Aid into the
Gaza
Strip DW Middle East analyst shenir
roosan is joins me now in the studio
shenir good to see you is the attack on
K Shalom earlier today putting more
pressure on Israel to reject the
ceasefire deal and go ahead with their
plans to launch an offensive in Rafa it
definitely helps n remind the people in
Israel who he's dealing with you know
this is also partially what we're seeing
in the back and forth in these
negotiations both side are trying to
seem tough and to say we are not afraid
of War we are not afraid of
Confrontation we have seen Nano already
yesterday releasing uh messages he's
adamant on going into rafar regardless
of what happens to the deal this is sort
of the Hamas saying sort of Bring It On
We're Not Afraid we can still launch
rockets at Israel which uh means that
definitely uh we're not deterred and we
will see more of this back and forth and
and we're seeing that both sides are on
the one hand signaling the want to cease
fire but then on the other hand also
trying to say we don't you know we're
not desperately wanting it we're willing
to go on fighting um how much of it is
just you know rhetorics connected to
negotiations how much is it really
another another
step into further escalation in the
region we will know very soon Shen
there's obviously a broad range of
opinions but tell us what do people
generally in Israel actually want you
know do they want a ceasefire deal in
the release of hostages or is there more
support for an offensive in in Rafa well
the the issue of the hostages which is
the heart of the matter now when we talk
about why would Israel even want to have
a deal that's because of that you know
there's 133 officially uh Israelis that
are kept in Gaza we don't know the
conditions of many of them how how many
of them are alive but there are at least
several dozens who are alive and there's
a need and there's a growing pressure
from the families to bring them home and
there's there's wide support for that
but what matters to Netanyahu is not the
wide support in the Israeli public but
rather where does his base stand
Netanyahu seems to be caring very much
for his political future he wants to
guarantee the support for the base and
there we see a lot of uh support for
Rafa offensive even if it means uh that
the lives of those hostages might be
jeopardized for that reason s now the
cabinet of Benin Netanyahu has ordered
the qari broadcaster Al jazer to be shut
down in Israel tell us why is that step
being taken now well that's an
interesting and very good question
because we know this topic has been
coming back and forth you know in
Israeli uh media and and discourse along
the years and definitely in the last
months again since October 7th um it
seems like it's either net playing
politics trying to seem tougher because
we know there's lot been a lot of
support from his base and a lot of push
from his base to shut down uh the Qatari
uh aler Channel which matters a lot to
the Qatari as a symbol and who they are
it's part of their their soft power in
the world um and at the same time you
know we know the Americans were against
it we also know within Israeli mad um
heads you know the head of the Mad were
against that in said we don't want to
alienate di kataris we need their
support in the talk we need their
support in leveraging their influence on
Hamas and by doing that it's another way
of of for netan to toughen his positions
maybe and Signal more that he's adant to
go further further on with operation you
know with offensive ground operation in
Rafa more than anything else that was DW
Middle East analyst Shen ran Shen thank
you so much for that analysis